so if you asked me to boil the world's
problems down it comes down to people do
really dumb to feel good about
themselves
this isn't Austin impact Theory being in
a bubble there is a whole world of hyper
successful entrepreneurs for whom it's
not enough to have made a ton of cash
they really want to do something alright
what's up everybody we're here at the
new house and I'm about to speak at the
human gathering I am insanely excited
about this this is put on board my boy
West Chapman if you haven't seen the
interview yet check it out right there
an absolutely phenomenal interview this
guy is unbelievable what he's trying to
put together and do in the world at
large is absolutely incredible and today
is really about bringing changemakers
together people who want to have an
impact on the world at scale let's go
inside let's do this
[Music]
her
so when people ask me what I want to do
the truest answer I can give you is I
want to pull people out of the matrix so
in the movie the matrix which if you
haven't seen Morpheus gives neo two
different pills to choose from and the
blue pill you wake up in your bed you
believe whatever you want to believe
this is just been a strange dream but if
you take the red pill you wake up in the
real world no it doesn't promise that
the real world it's going to be fun or
pretty or enjoyable but he does promise
that it's real and for the first time
you will actually understand the way the
world works to me that's the perfect
metaphor for life so the matrix is your
mindset so for me I grew up with a fixed
mindset and if you guys have read
mindset by Carol Dweck the both the
outlines is basically two different
mindsets you can have a fixed mindset
where you believe that your talents and
intelligence or fixed traits that are
immutable there's nothing that you can
do about them and so life really becomes
about putting yourself in a situation
where you make the most of the talents
that you have versus a growth mindset
where you believe that your talent and
intelligence are not fixed that they are
malleable traits and that they will
yield to hard work practice discipline
improving your skill set one piece in
the puzzle that I don't think a lot of
people are talking about yet which is
what is the role of self-esteem in all
of this and I'm a big believer that
everybody needs to feel good about
themselves and we have this weird thing
in society where it's like don't be
proud write to me just looking at the
human animal once somebody believes that
they could no longer feel good about
themselves ever again they commit
suicide right so they're wrong but if
that were true what would be the point
but once you realize that even
self-esteem is a construct you've
decided that your value is predicated on
something and that something is external
and so what I had to realize in my own
life was that I was making really stupid
decisions to protect my self-esteem if
you build your self-esteem around being
smart you'll find yourself putting
yourself in rooms where you really are
the smartest person not going to grow at
all but you don't think you can grow so
if you ask me to boil the world's
problems down it comes down to people do
really dumb to feel good about
themselves period that is your problem
like every problem that you have it
boils down to that very simple scenario
and it is because people believe
that who they are - they are that it
can't change it is what it is and need
to make the most of the talents in the
situation that they've been given rather
than taking total ownership and saying I
can do anything that I want so thank you
so much Tom appreciate ya thank you if
you don't have a growth mindset and
don't want one don't worry I wish you
the best truly I want good things for
people but if that's you I can't help
you I'm not your guy
I'm the filtering mechanism to find
people who are at a certain Junction in
their life where they are saying to
themselves one simple fact I could do
more I could be more cool now I'm your
guy so right now education is taught
with a scarcity mentality there's only
so many aids that can be gotten now flip
that a video game work anyone who wants
to can finish the entire game collect
all the coins beat all the bosses
everything what you do is you play until
you die you reassess you play again you
get a little bit farther but you die
against you have to reassess learn a new
skill
push yourself get past it put a lot of
hours into it get it but ultimately if
you put in the work you're going to get
to the end you're going to master all
the different skills that you needed to
do that somehow we've got this mentality
that if you're making money that it is
inherently bad it doesn't make sense if
I've delivered so much value to you that
you're like I would so much rather have
that value than this money how is that
bad and then I it incentivizes
me to do great things
people will chase the biggest waves so
if we don't make education a big wave
you're not going to attract big wave
surfers like I don't understand the
mentality like we impoverished
these things that we say that we care
about if your model doesn't handle that
if it can't sustain that your model
sucks and so why don't we get a new
model that's good
[Music]
so tonight was amazing for two reasons
one having a chance to be up on stage
and talk to people that really view the
world the same way that I do that they
are excited to get out there and to
actually make change in a hyper specific
way that you can actually execute
against and build something that is
self-sustaining that that is my
intoxication so until next time my
friends the legendary take care
[Music]